-I'm going to be home late today, Mom.
-Why?
Is it the Chemistry Club's
clean your beaker day?
No.
It happens to be buff
your Bunsen Burner Day.
But I'm going to be late because
I'm going out for the school play.
Oh, that's great, honey, but, um,
you don't "go out" for the theater.
You audition.
Go out, audition,
what difference does it make?
No one ever picks him anyways.
I think he's got a great shot.
Acting runs in the family.
I mean, did I ever tell you
that one time I got 10 curtain calls?
-Yeah, yeah.
-A hundred times.
Ooh. You're doing a play in school?
Which one?
Well, I hope Agamemnon by Aeschylus.
You know, I've prepared an audition
monologue in the original Greek.
You mean the original geek?
Is it the scene where Aegisthus
and Clytemnestra plot against
Agamemnon as he returns from Troy?
-Duh! That's, like, the best scene.
-The best scene!
Guys, guess what?
I just found out
what our school play is going to be.
High School Musical!
Well, it's no Agamemnon, but it's bouncy.
♪ Here I am in your life ♪
♪ Here you are in mine ♪
♪ Yes, we have a suite life ♪
♪ Most of the time
You and me, we got the world to see ♪
♪ So come on down ♪
♪ Just me and you know what to do
So come on down ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ And me and you
We got the whole place to ourselves ♪
♪ You and me, we got it all for free
So come on down ♪
♪ This is the suite life ♪
♪ We've got a suite life ♪
-What role are you hoping to get?
-Sharpay.
You know, a lot of people tell me
I look just like the girl who plays her.
-Really?
-Uh-huh.
I don't see it.
Well, she has people
who help her look better.
So...who are you auditioning for?
Troy, which in Agamemnon
is the city ruled by King Priam,
besieged for 10 years by the Greeks.
But in this play,
it's a cool dude with great hair.
I never got a lead role when
I went to Our Lady of Perpetual Sorrow.
Every single Christmas,
I was the wise man who brought myrrh.
-What is myrrh, anyway?
-I don't even know, ok?
The point is, I want to get a part
where I don't have to wear a beard.
Zach, what are you doing here?
I thought you didn't like theater.
Well, you see, I bet Bob
my golf ball could break a blackboard.
-And?
-I won!
So for my detention...
I either had
to work backstage or clean toilets.
I flipped a coin.
So, Maddie,
what part are you trying out for?
Hello? Sharpay!
People say I look just like her.
Really?
I don't see it.
I'm here. Hold the applause.
-Hi, Tony.
-It's Antonio.
I changed it after my triumphant turn
as King Lear at Peter's Puppeteria.
Bet you had to pull
some strings to get that part.
-Funny, right?
-Next!
-That's me.
-Break a leg.
-Thanks.
-Literally.
Hey, ow.
Stop it!
I thought for my audition,
I'd do a song by Gilbert and Sullivan.
You know any songs from this century?
Or the previous one?
No.
Then sing.
[CLEARS THROAT]
♪ When I was a lad ♪
♪ I served a term
As office boy to an attorney's firm ♪
♪ I cleaned the windows,
And I swept the floor ♪
♪ And I polished up
The handle of the big front door ♪
That was very interesting.
♪ I... ♪
♪ Polished that handle so carefully ♪
♪ That now I am the ruler
Of the queen's navy ♪
[LATIN DANCE MUSIC PLAYING]
♪ Yeah, we're gonna bop, bop, bop ♪
♪ Bop to the top ♪
♪ Wipe away your inhibitions ♪
♪ Stomp, stomp, stomp to the romp ♪
♪ And strut your stuff ♪
That-- That's good. I've heard enough.
[MUSIC ENDS]
That was really great.
And everyone says
I look exactly like Sharpay.
-Really?
-Yeah.
I don't see it.
I'm here!
Prepare to be dazzled.
Excuse me, but I work alone.
[FOLK MUSIC PLAYING]
♪ London Tipton's really great ♪
♪ Really great, really great ♪
♪ And deserves the opposite of hate
Which is love ♪
Wow, um, thanks.
Ooh! You want more?
There are 10 more verses.
Are they different?
Ooh! In verse three,
there's an extra "really" in it.
Well, that's really, really great.
-Next!
-Ooh! That's me.
Hit it, Louie.
[SHOW MUSIC PLAYING]
♪ I've got beef between my teeth ♪
♪ It would be boss ♪
♪ If I had floss ♪
This is from my unproduced musical, Floss.
Is it? I found it on the Internet
and thought it was genius.
Finally someone sees it.
Well, sing, boy, sing!
♪ The stick is stuck ♪
♪ I'm out of luck ♪
♪ I'm at a loss ♪
♪ Without my floss ♪
♪ I can't eat a lentil ♪
♪ Without dental floss ♪
That was beautiful.
The audition results
are on the school web site.
I can't look. Cody, you do it.
Yes! Fantastic.
I'm Sharpay?
-No, I got the part of Troy.
-Who cares?
Yes! I'm Sharpay's understudy.
Understudy?!
I can't believe it.
I wanted this part more than anything.
How could I not get it?
Hey, guys. Great news.
I'm playing Sharpee.
Sharpay!
She got my part,
and she can't even pronounce the name.
Who cares what her name is?
I'm just happy
to be in Musical High School.
Aargh!
I can't believe I'm an understudy.
It's insulting.
I might as well be a lousy stagehand.
Heh heh. No offense.
None taken.
I think this whole thing is lame!
I just don't understand why
London got my part.
-I can sing, I can dance, I can act--
-Can you work a power painter?
-Mr. Blaine?
-Yeah.
Sorry to bother you, but...
I was just wondering
why I didn't get the part of Sharpay.
Um, look, Maddie.
You're a great singer, but...
you're just too nice
to play the role of Sharpay.
I mean, she has got to be really mean.
I can be mean.
Sometimes,
when I give sandwiches to the poor...
[WHISPERS]
I don't cut off the crusts.
-Oh.
-Ooh.
-You are motorcycle-gang material.
-Oh, yeah. Grr!
Okay.
London, Antonio,
let's take it from the top, please.
Top of what?
That means the beginning.
Of the song.
Oh. Heh heh.
-Amateur.
-[GASPS]
Mr. Blaine, Antonio called me a bad word.
I'm sure he did, sweetheart. And music!
-[LATIN DANCE MUSIC PLAYING]
-♪ I believe in dreaming ♪
♪ Shooting for the stars ♪
♪ Baby, to be number one ♪
♪ You've got to raise the bar ♪
♪ Kicking and scratching ♪
♪ Grinding out my best ♪
♪ Anything it takes to climb ♪
BOTH:
♪ The ladder of success ♪
MR. BLAINE:
Okay, okay, let's stop, please! Stop.
-[MUSIC ENDS]
-Good.
I need a spring water.
Aw, come on.
Spray, you stupid sprayer!
Maddie, can you hold this?
I'm going to find the instructions.
Great, great job, London.
Uh, but to be even greater,
you may want to consider singing lessons.
-Well, if you think they'd help--
-And dancing lessons.
How could she have gotten
this part over me?
Don't you read Teen Theater Magazine?
London's father is financing a
Broadway run of Mr. Blaine's play, Floss.
This is so unfair.
I can't believe that London
gets everything just because she's rich.
Oh, Mr. Blaine...
my dressing-room mirror's broken.
It doesn't tell me how beautiful
I am like the one I have at home does.
Uh, Carl?
Go stand in London's dressing room
and tell her how beautiful she is.
That's it!
Ok, no more Ms. Nice-Gal.
I'm gonna tell London the truth
no matter how much it hurts her.
[SIGHS]
I love the theater when it gets catty.
Ohh, Maddie! Did you see?
-I'm great!
-Ha! Great?
The only reason why you got that part
was because your daddy bought it for you.
I can't believe it.
Yeah, well, it's the truth.
That is so sweet of him.
I have to go thank him.
Unh! Oh!
Oh.
Can you show me how to do that?
Guys, I've told
you no playing basketball inside.
I'm not. I'm rehearsing.
Okay. No rehearsing basketball inside.
Mom, I'm a method actor.
And since I'm playing a jock,
I've decided to live the role 24/7.
And even that isn't gonna be enough time.
Not true.
I think I'm getting athlete's foot.
Well, so far,
that's the only athletic thing about you.
I've been practicing, and I'm starting
to look like a real b-baller.
♪ Ice cream, ice cream
Cherries on top ♪
♪ How many girlfriends do I got ♪
Well, if you keep that up...none.
My ball! My ball!
I-- I mean...ahem.
Give me back the rock.
That was very believable, honey.
Carey, my drama teacher thinks
I could use a teensy-weensy
bit of help with my singing.
-Oh, I'd be happy to help.
-Thanks.
Do you know any good singers?
London, I happen
to be a professional singer.
I sing in the lounge every night.
I thought that was karaoke
and you hogged the mic.
Now, learning how to sing a song
is easy if you can handle a scale.
No problem.
You just step on it,
then subtract five pounds.
Sweetie, no, not that kind of scale,
a musical scale. Here.
Sing this.
[PLAYS PITCH PIPE]
♪ Do, re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do ♪
How am I supposed to remember all that?
Well, uh, you could, um,
you could try thinking of things
that remind you of each note. Uh...
[PLAYS PITCH PIPE]
-♪ Do ♪
-Oh, that's easy.
Dough means money!
Okay. Well, let's keep going.
♪ Re, mi ♪
Yay, me!
♪ Fa, so ♪
If something's far, I say, "so?"
Because I have a private jet.
♪ La ♪
Law is something
you get to break if you're rich.
♪ Ti ♪
My favorite vowel!
♪ Do ♪
Yay! More money!
Okay. Now let's try
putting it all together.
Do, yay, me!
Far, so? La, ti, do!
-[SHATTERS]
-Oh, mazel tov!
What was that terrible noise?
I was singing.
Not that noise.
The--  other noise that someone
else was making that drowned out
your wonderful singing.
Nice save.
London,
shall we get this dance lesson started?
I want you to get your money's worth.
-Yes.
-How much is she paying you?
Three diamonds an hour.
I'm only getting two. I got robbed.
Hey, are we gonna dance or what?
Yes, yes. Now, London, a good dancer...
dances from his soul.
See? Like this.
Step, step, kick.
And shimmy, shimmy,
shimmy, shimmy, one, two, boogie.
And shorty George, shorty George.
Fishtail, fishtail.
And crazy legs, crazy legs.
Jazz square, jazz square.
And big finish!
I can do that.
Shimmy, shimmy, kick, kick, crazy--
[CRASH]
You're a natural.
Your dancing shoe?
Okay, people, it's opening night.
We have to practice all of our numbers.
Ooh! Let's start with number eight.
It looks hard,
but you just draw a snowman.
See?
I meant musical numbers.
Places!
Lower the gym set.
Got it.
[SQUEAKING]
That's a pirate ship.
Argh! Heh.
While we wait for Captain Schnook,
let's do "Bop to the Top."
And music.
-[LATIN DANCE MUSIC PLAYING]
-Mucho gusto.
Ay, que fabulosa.
Ow! Stop!
-[MUSIC ENDS]
-That is it.
-I'm taking five.
-Ooh!
Me, too. How much time do we have?
Antonio, Antonio, come here.
Please, please, please.
-Just relax and breathe, okay?
-[BREATHES DEEPLY]
I will not risk my professional reputation
performing with that amateur.
I have talent scouts coming to see me, and
London is bopping me right to the bottom.
Wait, wait, wait.
You have talent scouts coming?
-Yes.
-Okay.
I think Antonio's right.
As captain of this team,
I think we should bench London.
STUDENTS:
Yeah. Definitely.
So, we all agree that London stinks
like a dead fish on a city bus.
[STUDENTS CHUCKLE]
LONDON:
Is that what you think of me?
That I stink?
[GASPS]
And take the bus?
You know,
why don't you just give Maddie the role?
She deserves it.
No, no, no, absolutely not.
There is no way that I am taking London
out of this production.
Not if I want to see Floss on Broadway.
-But, if I'm as rotten as everyone says--
-Oh, you are.
What you do should be
classified as a capital crime
in all 50 states and Puerto Rico.
I don't want to embarrass
myself in front of daddy.
Um, daddy?
Yeah. He's coming to the show tonight.
-Daddy's coming? To see you be good?
-Yeah.
[ALL GASP]
Anyone have any smelling salts?
Well, I got an old gym sock in my locker.
I'm okay. I'm okay.
So, what are we gonna do?
Well, that's a good question. Um...
I got it. We'll do Singing in the Rain.
We have to learn a whole new musical?
I barely know this one.
We'll do what they did
in the movie, Singing in the Rain.
-You'll lip-sync...
[LONDON]: Okay.
while Maddie is behind
the curtain doing the actual singing.
That's a brilliant idea.
What's so brilliant about it?
I do all the work,
and you get all the credit?
Yeah, that's the brilliant part.
Look, I'm sick of being nice.
Look where it's gotten me. I won't do it.
STUDENTS:
Come on, Maddie. Do it.
Maddie, please?
Look, I know you really deserve this part.
But daddy has never been
to a single one of my school performances.
In kindergarten, when I played
a raindrop in The Itsy Bitsy Spider,
I looked down into the audience where
all the other raindrops' daddies were.
And he wasn't there.
He sent the butler instead,
and not even the good one.
You had a bad butler?
Everyone does. Ask around.
-What?
Come on, Maddie.
Pretty please with caviar on top?
STUDENTS:
Please? Come on.
Okay, okay, fine.
But I'm not just doing it for you.
I'm doing it for all my fellow actors
who never caught a break in this
-topsy-turvy world we call show--
-Save your voice.
I want to sound good.
Good going, just like I wrote it.
Perfect. Hey! Good job, Cody.
You know, you even
kind of look like Zac Efron.
And I don't look like Ashley Tisdale?
You people are all crazy!
What key?
We had our rehearsal pianist
do an arrangement.
Pblffft. Pblffft. Pblffft.
-Mr. Tipton.
-Yes, Moseby?
When you see London's dancing,
it may look a bit rough and unrehearsed.
Well, that's just the style these days.
Bad singing, that's also the style.
Or really great singing.
I taught her everything she knows, sir.
I taught her crazy legs, sir.
I am so proud of you.
Now tell me.
-Does your father look happy?
-Yep.
I got a thumbs-up from daddy
and his bodyguards.
Oh, joy. It's working.
You know, Maddie is doing all the work.
Nuh-uh. Moving your lips is work.
-You know Maddie should probably--
-Zip it, mister.
Not another word,
or I'm putting you on that pirate ship.
Okay, Maddie.
Are we ready to bop to the top?
Because remember,
we're all in this together.
Okay, you're pushing it to the limit.
Sorry.
[LATIN DANCE MUSIC PLAYING]
Mucho gusto.
Ay, que fabulosa.
[TRILLS]
Ay, ay, ay.
Arriba.
-Quieres bailar?
-Quiero puke.
♪ I believe in dreaming ♪
♪ Shooting for the stars ♪
♪ Baby to be number one ♪
♪ You've got to raise the bar ♪
Cody, help me show
everyone it's Maddie singing.
♪ Grinding out my best ♪
♪ Anything it takes to find ♪
-Don't pull that one!
-Oh!
♪ Work our tails off every day ♪
Get up! The show must go on.
-Not with me.
-But we can't do this number without you.
Yes, we can.
Caliente!
♪ Yeah, we're gonna
Bop, bop, bop, bop to the top ♪
♪ Slip and slide and ride that rhythm ♪
♪ Jump and pop
Hop til we drop ♪
♪ And start again ♪
Sing!
♪ Zip zap zop
Flop like a mop ♪
I don't want to embarrass
myself in front of Daddy.
Sing!
♪ Move it to the groove
Til the music stops ♪
♪ Do the bop, bop, bop ♪
They're very good. They-- love it!
They're supposed to love me.
♪ Bop to the top ♪
♪ Gimmie, gimmie, shimmy, shimmy ♪
♪ Shake some booty and turn around ♪
♪ Flash a smile in their direction ♪
♪ Show some muscle ♪
♪ Do the hustle ♪
♪ Yeah, we're gonna bop, bop, bop ♪
♪ Bop to the top ♪
♪ Wipe away your inhibitions ♪
♪ Stomp, stomp, stomp, do the romp ♪
♪ And strut your stuff ♪
♪ Bop, bop, bop, straight to the top ♪
♪ Going for the glory ♪
♪ We'll keep stepping up,
And we just won't stop ♪
♪ Til we reach the top ♪
♪ Bop to the top ♪
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
See? Your dad is proud of you.
I told you you can do it.
Wow, Maddie, you really are nice.
No wonder you didn't
get the role of Sharpay.
Way to go, Maddie.
A five, six, seven, eight.
[SHOW MUSIC PLAYING]
♪ I've got beef between my teeth ♪
♪ It would be boss ♪
♪ If I had floss ♪
That's what I like to see.
Let's try it again, okay? Ready?
[BLAINE]: Five, six, seven, eight.
♪ The stick is stuck, I'm out of luck ♪
♪ I'm at a loss ♪
♪ Without my floss ♪
Now we're getting it.
One more time. Here we go.
Five, six-- Ah, forget it.